
In Minecraft Hardcore, one death means losing everything, making each achievement more valuable and thrilling.
Craft a shield early on to block attacks and explosions, providing essential protection.
Increase your odds of survival by being cautious at night, utilizing settings to detect danger, and utilizing villagers for valuable trades and resources.
Minecraft Hardcore is a difficult but incredibly rewarding experience; everything feels more meaningful and valuable because all it takes is one death, and everything you've worked for is gone. This isn't meant to be discouraging either; you'd be surprised at how exhilarating it can feel to fear even the most common mobs again, like skeletons, zombies, and spiders.

split image showing astroneer, valheim, no mans sky, and pixark
Related
10 Games To Play If You Like Minecraft
Is Minecraft not enough for you? Here, you can check out some of the best games to play if you are a fan of Minecraft.

By 
Jacqueline Zalace
If you're on the fence about starting your first Hardcore playthrough, or you've gone through a few different worlds already and you're still struggling to survive, here are a number of tips, tricks, and general guidelines that can help increase your odds.

For this list, we decided to focus on tips that were practical in order to help players of any skill level have a more rewarding and enjoyable gameplay experience.

9
Make A Shield As Soon As Possible
A player in full iron armor wielding a sword and a mostly brown shield with metal reinforcements.
If there's anything you're going to rush in the early game, please make it a shield. For the extremely cost-effective price of six wood planks and a single iron ingot, you gain access to a defensive piece of gear that can completely negate the damage of a Creeper explosion, even if you don't have armor.

Plus, shields let you block melee attacks, deflect projectiles like arrows and crossbow bolts, and significantly reduce knockback from a variety of damage sources, like explosions or Hoglin and Ravager attacks.

8
Try Not To Get Caught Outside At Night
A green, grassy field during the daytime with mountains in the distance in Minecraft.
This is an obvious tip, but if anything, this is about the principle of mindfulness. When you're playing on the hardest difficulty, and you only have one life, you have to get accustomed to a risk-averse mindset, playing more carefully, and being mindful of the damage that enemies and the environment can inflict on you.

As you're exploring for villages and cool spots to set up a base in the first few in-game days of your playthrough, try to get a bed crafted as fast as possible. If you have no other option, there's no shame in digging a hole in the ground and covering the top with a block until sunrise.

7
Use Settings To Your Advantage
The Music and Sounds settings in Minecraft, with the subtitles being found in the bottom left.
This isn't a necessity, but if you want to be extra safe, go into options, music and settings, and at the bottom-left, turn on subtitles. Now, as you play the game, you should see some information in the bottom-right of your screen that updates based on what's happening around you.

You'll see a variety of information, such as when footsteps are heard or when blocks are being broken, but on the more useful side, it'll also tell you when you're near lava or a hostile mob. It even has directional arrows near the text to point you in the direction of potential danger.

6
You Can Use A Fortune Pickaxe On More Than Just Ore
A green and red sweet berry bush being hit by a Fortune pickaxe.
While it's nice to see a bunch of ore plop out of a single block, some players don't realize that the Fortune enchantment effect applies to other resources too. If you're struggling to get food, for example, you can use a Fortune pick on melon blocks and sweet berries, or planted crops like carrots, potatoes, and beetroot.

From left to right, playing with a low render distance in Minecraft, collecting experience orbs in Minecraft, and testing biome transition settings in Minecraft
Related
Minecraft: 13 Best Performance And Optimization Mods
Performance and optimization mods can significantly improve your Minecraft experience, so don't overlook them.

2
By 
Jacqueline Zalace
Also, if you're planning on brewing a bunch of potions, you can use a Fortune pick on Nether Wart to increase the yield of your harvest. If you want to, you can make a second Fortune pick specifically for non-ore harvesting.

5
Villagers: Vital Business Partners
A mostly light grey trade screen UI from a Fletcher profession villager.
Considering you can trade for diamond weapons, tools, and armor, Mending enchantment books, golden carrots, and plenty of other useful items, setting up advantageous trades is a great mid to late game goal for your Hardcore world.

If you're completely new to villager trades, check out this useful guide. If you want an easy way to get emeralds, just mass produce sticks from wood planks. Then, find villagers with the Fletcher profession; some of them will be willing to trade an emerald for 32 sticks.

4
Get Acquainted With Potions
A grey and yellow potion brewing stand sits atop a shiny diamond block.
You don't have to become a master alchemist, but learning about and stocking up on the most helpful potions in the game will go a long way in terms of survivability. Ideally, you'll want to farm relevant resources and start crafting:

Healing and Regeneration potions.
Strength potions.
Fire Resistance and Water Breathing potions.
Swiftness potions.
While these potions are universally useful in practically any situation, they are especially helpful for the more dangerous areas and content in the game, such as the End, Nether, Deep Dark, or Illager structures.

3
It Doesn't Hurt To Be Frugal
Four pieces or raw, red beef cook and emit black smoke on a campfire.
While this arguably becomes less important as time goes on and you start to become more well-established, reigning in any unnecessary wastefulness can go a long way, especially in the early game when coal, food, and other resources are highly sought after.

split image showing whisperwoods mod next to image of weeping angels mod
Related
Minecraft: 11 Mods Perfect For Halloween
Celebrate Halloween in Minecraft to the fullest with these Halloween mods!

By 
Jacqueline Zalace
Being more frugal could look like growing and turning bamboo into sticks to use as a fuel source instead of coal, eating food only when you get the maximum amount of saturation from it, or using a campfire instead of a furnace to cook food.

2
Think Critically And Plan Accordingly
A large lake of reddish orange lava surrounded by yellow glowstone and red netherstone.
You can never be too prepared. There's no need to enter a vast cave system, for example, before you have armor, a shield, tools, weapons, torches, food, and anything else that fits your goals and needs.

As another hypothetical, if you're going into a very dangerous area, like the Nether, you'd want gear and items that make sense to bring, and to abide by risk-averse behaviors, such as:

Wearing a piece of gold armor to prevent Piglins from attacking you on sight.
Avoiding building a thin bridge across a lava lake.
Bringing Fire Resistance potions if you plan on fighting blazes.
1
Learn From Your Mistakes
A Minecraft Hardcore Game Over screen with a red and blue background.
Sometimes, even with careful planning and preparation, things can go awry quickly. With Minecraft being such an open-ended and dynamic experience, it's only a matter of time before you encounter a unique situation or problem you've never dealt with before.

Ultimately, the more you play, the more scenarios and problems you'll experience, and thus, the more you will learn, adapt, and overcome. Take breaks when you need to, but don't let the end of a Hardcore run discourage you from mastering different aspects of the game.