1	Ocelots show creepers who’s boss!
2	Did you know there's a Minecraft Wiki?
3	Use the right tool for the job! Digging dirt with a shovel is much faster than using a pickaxe!
4	Zombified piglins won't attack you if you have golden armour - unless you attack them or open chests in bastions.
5	Need fuel for torches? Try smelting logs in a furnace to get charcoal.
6	A Spider Jockey is the rare appearance of a spider being ridden by a skeleton!
7	If you set the game difficulty to Peaceful, your health will automatically regenerate, and no monsters will come out at night!
8	Harvest leather from cows, and use it to make armor and books.
9	Were you at MINECON?
10	Some animals will follow you if you have wheat in your hand.
11	If you can't find any coal for your torches, you can always make charcoal from trees in a furnace.
12	Sleeping in a bed at night will fast forward the game to dawn, but all players in a multiplayer game need to sleep in beds at the same time.
13	Baby turtles drop scutes as they grow, use them to craft turtle shells.
14	Craft torches to light up dark areas. Monsters lurk in the darkness!
15	Cobblestone is resistant to Ghast fireballs, making it useful for guarding portals.
16	The Enderman language is actually English in reverse.
17	Obsidian is created when water hits a lava source block.
18	Do not look directly at the bugs.
19	Wearing a pumpkin on your head will keep Endermen from attacking you.
20	Iron golems will fight for you!
21	You can change the look of your character with a Skin Pack from the Store. Select 'Store' on the Main Menu to see what's available.
22	Pigs that are struck by lightning become Zombie Pigmen!
23	The instrument played by a note block depends on the material beneath it.
24	Music by C418!
25	Some famous people play Minecraft!
26	MINECON 2015 was in London, UK!
27	Bonemeal (crafted from a Skeleton bone) can be used as a fertilizer and can make things grow instantly!
28	Get to destinations faster with a minecart and rail!
29	Creepers were born from a coding bug.
30	Zombies and Skeletons can survive daylight if they are in water or wearing a helmet.
31	Building a portal will allow you to travel to another dimension - The Nether.
32	MINECON 2016 was in Anaheim, California, USA!
33	Wolves and Iron Golems won't attack Creepers.
34	Blocks that can be used as a light source will melt snow and ice. This includes torches, glowstones, and Jack-O-Lanterns.
35	Plant some saplings and they'll grow into trees.
36	No-one can remember where MINECON 2014 was held.
37	MINECON 2013 was in Orlando, Florida, USA!
38	There will be an update to this game eventually!
39	MINECON 2012 was in Paris, France!
40	The original name for Minecraft was Cave Game.
41	You can change your game spawn point, and skip to dawn by sleeping in a bed.
42	No-one at Mojang has ever seen Junkboy's face.
43	Attacking a wolf will cause any wolves in the immediate vicinity to turn hostile and attack you. This trait is also shared by Zombie Pigmen.
44	If the source block for water or lava is removed, it will stop the flow completely.
45	If you have an empty bucket, you can fill it with water, lava, or milk from a cow!
46	Mojang has more awards than staff!
47	Hit those fireballs back at the Ghast!
48	The first version of Minecraft was created in just 6 days!
49	Eating cooked food reduces hunger better than eating raw food.
50	Harvest food from pigs, cows, sheep, rabbit, and chickens. Cook and eat it to regain health!
51	Placing two chests side by side will make one large chest.
52	Always assume rumors are false, rather than assuming they're true!
53	Traveling one block in the Nether is equal to traveling eight blocks in the overworld.
54	Take caution when building structures made of wool out in the open, as lightning from thunderstorms can set wool on fire.
55	Creepers explode when they get close to you!
56	You can smelt 20 items in a furnace using a block of dried kelp as fuel.
57	Digging straight down or straight up is not a great idea.
58	MINECON 2011 was in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA!
59	Endermen hate bath time!
60	Feed a bone to a wolf to tame it. You can then make it sit or follow you.
61	Tame wolves show their health with the position of their tail. Feed them meat to heal them.
62	A single bucket of lava can be used in a furnace to smelt 100 blocks.
63	Feeding an animal will keep it from despawning. Build a pen to keep your animals safe.
64	Obsidian can only be mined with a diamond pickaxe.
65	Alter the brightness setting to make the game brighter or darker.
66	Is it a chicken or is it a duck?
67	Sometimes iron golems give flowers to the villager children!
68	Chickens lay an egg every 5 to 10 minutes.
69	Spiders won't attack you during the day - unless you attack them.
70	Use a hoe to prepare areas of ground for planting.
71	Different colored dyes can be made from a variety of materials, cook cactus in a furnace to get green dye!
72	Creepers are the easiest obtainable source of gunpowder.
Aquatic
This section is missing information about the version each tip was added (like on the Splash page). 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.
Loading tips from 1.9.0 to 1.14.0.

#	Text
1	Use seagrass to attract and breed sea turtles.
2	Protect baby turtles from hostile mobs!
3	Baby turtles will drop scutes when they grow - these can be crafted into turtle shells.
4	Use a bed to set your respawn point during the day.
5	Brew some water breathing potions for underwater exploration!
6	Dolphins can lead you to shipwrecks and underwater ruins, feed them cod and follow their trail!
7	Use shears to carve a pumpkin.
8	Use phantom membranes to repair your elytra.
9	There are 3587 types of tropical fish!
10	Sea pickles can be smelted into lime green dye.
11	Use haybales to breed Llamas!
12	Compasses always point to the world spawn - craft one to find your way!
13	Trade with villagers to obtain food, tools, and even treasure maps!
14	Did you know you can hold a map in your off-hand?
15	Leads can be used on boats.
16	Sneak or wear frost walker boots to walk safely on magma blocks.
17	You can gather cob webs using shears.
18	Need diamonds? Try mining on Y coordinate 12!
19	Before you mine diamonds, redstone or gold, make sure you're using an iron or diamond pickaxe or the ore won't drop.
20	Need coal for torches or fuel? Try smelting wood logs in a furnace to make charcoal!
21	Gold is more abundant in Mesa biomes!
22	Elytra can be used to glide, find them in End City ships!
23	Test out some new features by turning on the Experimental Gameplay option!
24	Tridents are dropped by the Drowned, and can be held or thrown.
25	You can smelt 20 items in a furnace by using a block of dried kelp as fuel.
26	Monsters that are killed by skeletons arrows have a chance of dropping music discs.
27	People like YOU make Marketplace content!
28	Did you know that several community creators make a living off the content in the Marketplace?
29	You can find skins to customize your experience in-game, or on select platforms use your own!
30	Texture packs change the way that blocks, items, and even the menus look in game. Try them out!
31	Check out the Marketplace to find new worlds and adventures.
32	Apply to become a Marketplace Creator!
33	Mash-up packs come with a world to explore, skins, textures, and even new music.
34	Did you know there are over 500 community-created Marketplace packs with more added every week?
35	Join the discussion at discord.gg/Minecraft
36	Emerald ores are the rarest ores in Minecraft! They can only be found in extreme hill biomes!
37	Taming a skeleton horse doesn't require a saddle.
38	Ocelots show creepers who's boss!
39	Diorite, you either love it or hate it.
40	Phantoms are dangerous mobs that appear during the night. Make sure to sleep regularly!
41	Zombies turn into drowned if they sink underwater.
42	MINECON takes place every year! Look out for the next one!
43	Using fireworks boosts elytra speed in mid air. Just... make sure they don't explode, otherwise it'll hurt BADLY!
44	Gold is most common in mesa biomes.
45	Do people actually read these?
46	Infinite wonders, Endless possibilities.
47	DON'T LEAVE TREES FLOATING!
48	Sprint in water to swim!
49	Riptide enchantment will propel you through the air in the rain.
50	MINECON Earth is a worldwide interactive live-streaming event. Grab your items and join the party!
51	Be nice to animals!
52	The Beacon is a powerful item that can only be crafted with a nether star from the Wither!
53	Don't kill dolphins, you monster!
54	Did you know that nether stars can't be destroyed by explosions?
55	When digging straight up, place a torch at your feet to break any sand or gravel that could potentially fall down on you.
Nether Update
This section is missing information about the version each tip was added (like on the Splash page). 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.
Loading tips and trivia as of 1.16.0.

#	Text
1	You can barter with Piglins.
2	Shear a Beehive or nest to get Honeycomb, use a Bottle to get honey.
3	Place a Campfire under a Beehive or nest to harvest honey peacefully. Your bees will thank you.
4	Respawning in the Nether requires a charged Respawn Anchor.
5	You can charge a Respawn Anchor with Glowstone.
6	You can breed Hoglins with Crimson Fungus, but it is dangerous!
7	Gold is most common in the Nether and Badlands biomes.
Caves & Cliffs Update
This section is missing information about the version each tip was added (like on the Splash page). 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.
Loading tips and trivia as of 1.18.0.

#	Text
1	Emerald ores are the rarest in Minecraft! They can only be found mountains and meadows.[note 1]
2	Need diamonds? They get more common as you go deeper.[note 2]
 With the addition of this loading screen tip, a following loading screen was removed: "Emerald ores are the rarest ores in Minecraft! They can only be found in extreme hill biomes!"
 With the addition of this loading screen tip, a following loading screen was removed: "Need diamonds? Try mining on Y coordinate 12!"
The Wild Update
This section is missing information about the version each tip was added (like on the Splash page). 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.
Loading tips and trivia as of 1.19.0.

#	Text
1	Frogs eat small and blocky mobs.
2	The Allay loves to collect items! If you give it a certain item it will try to collect more of it.
3	Frogs pick a variant based on the temperature of the biome the tadpole grow up in.
4	You can collect tadpoles in buckets.
5	Ancient cities can be found under mountain ranges.
6	Allays love music and therefore interact with Noteblocks!
7	Use a water bottle on a dirt block to get mud!
8	When wandering in Deep Dark, silence is key.
Trails & Tales Update
This section is missing information about the version each tip was added (like on the Splash page). 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.
Loading tips and trivia as of 1.20.0.

#	Text
1	Explore structures throughout the Minecraft world to find smithing templates to trim your armor pieces.
2	Need more smithing templates? Try to copy them.
3	The sniffer egg seems to like moss blocks.
4	Mob heads make sounds, try them out on note blocks!
5	Some sand might be suspicious. Use your brush on it to find some good stuff!
6	Two players can ride together on a camel.
7	The camels jump... horizontally!
Beta
Loading tips and trivia for users in the beta.

#	Text
1	When you're on the beta, you can only play with other friends who are also on the beta!
2	Remember, you can't play on Realms and most servers when you’re on the beta.
3	Whatever you buy in the beta is real and will still be there if you leave the beta.
4	Don’t forget to create backups of your worlds before loading them in the beta.
5	Please log all bugs you find at bugs.mojang.com
6	Want to chat with us about the beta? Join the Minecraft Discord at discord.gg/Minecraft
7	Do you have a great idea for a new feature? Tell us on the beta forum of the feedback site at feedback.minecraft.net
8	Find a bug? Please tell us about it at bugs.mojang.com
9	If your friends can't join your world, it may be because they aren't also on the beta.
10	Remember to back up your worlds often & before you open them in the beta.
11	Thank you for participating in the beta!
12	Need help leaving the beta? Check out aka.ms/MinecraftXIP
13	The beta program is currently only available on Windows 10, Xbox One, and Android.
14	Remember, beta builds are not the final product. You might find crashes, glitches, and other weird stuff.
15	We love your feedback! Tell us what you think at feedback.minecraft.net
16	Did you know you can talk to our developers on discord.gg/Minecraft?
17	Don’t worry about crashing because crashes on the beta mean less crashes later!
Preview
Loading tips and trivia for users in the Minecraft Preview.

#	Text
1	Thank you for playing Minecraft Preview!
2	When you are playing Minecraft Preview, you can only play with other friends who are also playing Minecraft Preview and are on the same type of device.
3	Whatever you buy in Minecraft Preview will be available in Minecraft as well!
4	Do you have a great idea for a new feature? Tell us our feedback site at feedback.minecraft.net
5	Did you know you can talk to our developers on discord.gg/Minecraft?
Education Edition
This section is missing information about the version each tip was added (like on the Splash page). 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.
#	Text
1	You can hold down Shift to take a close up picture using the Camera.
2	Unlike Signs, you can edit Slates, Posters, and Boards over and over again.
3	Use Ctrl+B to turn on text-to-speech capabilities for in-game chat.
4	You can export your Minecraft world to share it with others.
5	To have your peers connect to your world, pause your game and share your IP address.
6	Remember that to use slash commands, you need to enable cheats in your world.
7	Done with your creation? Have others tour your world in Adventure Mode to protect your work.
8	To use code builder, press C on your keyboard or touch the Agent icon at the top of your screen!
9	Use the Library to find new game worlds to build in.
10	Looking for a specific biome? Try the Library.
11	NPC stands for Non-Player Character.
12	In Survival Mode, players must find their own resources.
13	In Creative Mode, players can freely choose to build from any of the blocks in Minecraft.
14	Your code building robot helper is called the Agent.
15	Redstone can be used in Minecraft to create circuits and simple machines.
16	You can copy-and-paste from a text editor to a slate, poster, or board.
17	You can toggle Keyboard and Mouse Hints on or off in the Settings menu under Controls.
18	You can toggle Auto Jump on or off in the Settings menu under Controls.
19	While in Creative Mode, quickly press jump twice to fly.
20	Choose a Default Game Mode when creating world to specify the type of gameplay you want.
21	Use the command "/setworldspawn" to have new players begin playing where you are standing.
22	Choose a default player permission when creating your world to specify the permissions you want your classmates to have when they join.
23	Press I on your keyboard or touch the Immersive Reader icon to read or translate in-game text.
Legacy Console Edition tips
This section is missing information about the version each tip was added (like on the Splash page). 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.
This section is missing information about minigame-specific tips and IDs. 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.
#	Text	Notes
?	Use a hoe to prepare areas of ground for planting.
?	You can change your game spawn point and skip to dawn by sleeping in a bed.
?	Notch has over a million followers on twitter!
?	Building a portal will allow you to travel to another dimension - The Nether.
?	Eating cooked pork chops gives more health than eating raw pork chops.	This message was not updated with the introduction of hunger.
?	Do not look directly at the bugs.
?	Make some torches to light up areas at night. Monsters will avoid the areas around these torches.
?	Take caution when building structures made of wool in open air, as lightning from thunderstorms can set wool on fire.
?	Not all Swedish people have blonde hair. Some, like Jens from Mojang, even have ginger hair!
?	Spiders won't attack you during the day - unless you attack them.
?	Digging straight down or straight up is not a great idea.
?	Did you know there's a Minecraft Wiki?
?	The instrument played by a note block depends on the material beneath it.
?	Creepers explode when they get close to you!
?	We think 4J Studios has removed Herobrine from the <console> console game, but we're not too sure.	This message is implied to be from the perspective of Mojang (or otherwise someone besides 4J Studios). Herobrine does not actually exist in any version of the game. <console> is replaced with the name of the console being played on.
?	Sleeping in a bed at night will fast forward the game to dawn, but all players in a multiplayer game need to sleep in beds at the same time.
?	Digging soil or sand with a spade is faster than with your hand!
?	Who is Notch?
?	Plant some saplings and they'll grow into trees.
?	If you have an empty bucket, you can fill it with milk from a cow, or water, or lava!
?	Minecraft: <console> Edition broke lots of records!	<console> is replaced with the name of the console being played on.
?	Cobblestone is resistant to Ghast fireballs, making it useful for guarding portals.
?	Get to destinations faster with a minecart and rail!
?	Hit those fireballs back at the Ghast!
?	If you can't find any coal for your torches, you can always make charcoal from trees in a furnace.
?	Some famous people play Minecraft!
?	Use the right tool for the job!
?	Alter the gamma settings to make the game brighter or darker.
?	Were you at Minecon?
?	Bonemeal (crafted from a skeleton bone) can be used as a fertilizer, and can make things grow instantly!
?	Harvest pork chops from pigs, and cook and eat them to regain health.	This message was not changed with the introduction of hunger.
?	Creepers were born from a coding bug.	When originally making pigs, Notch accidentally mixed up the length and height of the body, resulting in the tall appearance of the Creeper.
?	Placing two chests side by side will make one large chest.
?	You'll get the latest info on this game from 4JStudios on twitter!	Prior to its discontinuation, 4J Studios would post Console Edition update news on their Twitter.
?	Is it a chicken or is it a duck?	In October 2011, Notch tweeted that chickens had been changed to ducks.[1] This was later clarified to be a joke, but has sometimes been referred to in the years since.
?	Cook cactus in a furnace to get green dye.
?	Obsidian can only be mined with a diamond pickaxe.
?	No-one at Mojang has ever seen junkboy's face.
?	Chickens lay an egg every 5-10 minutes.
?	Harvest leather from cows, and use it to make armor.
?	deadmau5 likes Minecraft!
?	Blocks that can be used as a light source will melt snow and ice. This includes torches, glowstone, and Jack-O-Lanterns.
?	Pigmen won't attack you, unless you attack them.
?	There will be an update to this game eventually!
?	Feed a bone to a wolf to tame it. You can then make it sit or follow you.
?	If you set the game difficulty to Peaceful, your health will automatically regenerate, and no monsters will come out at night!
?	Mojang has more awards than staff!
?	Creepers are the easiest obtainable source of gunpowder.
?	Wolves won't attack Creepers.
?	Minecon 2012 was in Paris, France!
?	Obsidian is created when water hits a lava source block.
?	Tame wolves show their health with the position of their tail. Feed them meat to heal them.
?	Mojang's new office is cool!
?	Attacking a wolf will cause any wolves in the immediate vicinity to turn hostile and attack you. This trait is also shared by Zombie Pigmen.
?	Lava can take minutes to disappear COMPLETELY when the source block is removed.
?	.party() was excellent!
?	A single bucket of lava can be used in a furnace to smelt 100 blocks.
?	Zombies and Skeletons can survive daylight if they are in water.
?	Minecon 2011 was in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA!
?	minecraftforum has a section dedicated to the <console> Edition.	<console> is replaced with the name of the console being played on.
?	Stackable fences are in the game now!	Prior to TU3, fences could not be placed directly on top of other fences, thus were not "stackable". The item form of fences has always been stackable in the inventory.
?	No-one can remember where Minecon 2014 was held.	Minecon 2014 did not exist; it was delayed into the following year and became Minecon 2015.
?	Don't look an Enderman in the eye!	Staring at an Enderman causes it to become hostile.
?	If an animal can't move more than 20 blocks in any direction, it won't despawn.
?	Always assume rumors are false, rather than assuming they're true!
?	Read the What's New section in the How To Play menus to see the latest update information about the game.
?	Some animals will follow you if you have wheat in your hand.	This message was not updated when chickens and pigs were changed to be bred with wheat seeds and carrots respectively.
?	Minecon 2015 was in London, UK!
?	Connect extra controllers to your console and press Start button/Menu button/START button/OPTIONS button/+/START button/+ button on them to join a game at any point.	This message is replaced by a different one when using a non-HD TV, and is absent from PlayStation Vita Edition entirely as it does not support splitscreen.
?	Minecon 2016 was in Anaheim, California, USA!
?	Music by C418!
History
Bedrock Edition
1.2.0	beta 1.2.0.2	Added gameplay tips to the loading screen.
1.9.0	beta 1.9.0.0	Added several new loading screen tips and trivia suggested by the community.
1.14.0	beta 1.14.0.2	Added more new loading screen tips and trivia. These are only viewable by beta users.
1.16.0	beta 1.16.0.57	Added several new loading screen tips and trivia, related to the Nether Update and the Buzzy Bees.
1.16.100	beta 1.16.100.54	Removed mixer.com/minecraft loading tips, since Mixer streaming services is no longer available.
1.16.210	beta 1.16.210.51	Updated some of the outdated loading tips.[2][3]
beta 1.16.210.56	Added a new loading screen tips and trivia, related to the downloadable music on mobile devices.
1.20.30	beta 1.20.20.20	Reordered the loading tip lists.
Legacy Console Edition
TU1	CU1	1.0	Patch 1	1.0.1	Added gameplay tips to the loading screen.
?	Additional loading tips appear to have been added in later versions, as they mention features that were not in TU1 (such as Endermen) and later Minecons. However, it is not known exactly when these were implemented.
Gallery
An example of a unique loading screen created for DLC.
An example of a unique loading screen created for DLC.
References
 "Also, the chicken is now a duck." – @notch (Markus Persson) on X, October 28, 2011
 MCPE-98977
 MCPE-102293
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC BY-NC-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Minecraft
Recent Images
Minecraft Dungeons II Logo.png
Minecraft Dungeons II
5 days ago
In-game steve.png
Steve (mob)
6/4/2026
Steve (mob).png
Mob (entity)
6/4/2026

Fandom logo
Explore properties
